Updates to getInstalledRelatedApps (#3619)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/get-installed-related-apps/index.md

title: "Is your app installed? getInstalledRelatedApps() will tell you!"
subhead: |
  "The `getInstalledRelatedApps()` method allows your web app to check whether

>   your app or PWA is installed on a user's device."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  your Android app or PWA is installed on a user's device."
```

Reviewer: Please make this change throughout.

Author: Currently it's true, but it's possible Microsoft will allow sites to check if a Windows app is installed, etc. So I left it generic, except for the pieces that are specific to Android apps.

authors:
  - petelepage
description: |
  The getInstalledRelatedApps() API is a new web platform API that allows your

>   web app to check whether your app or PWA is installed on the user's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  web app to check whether your Android app or PWA is installed on the user's
```

Author: See comment above

already installed.

For example, if your PWA is already installed:

* Redirecting the user from a product marketing page directly into your app.
* Centralizing some functionality like notifications in the native app to
  prevent duplicate notifications.
* Not [promoting the installation](/customize-install/) of your PWA if your
  native app is already installed.

<div class="w-clearfix"></div>

### Supported app types you can check

Your website can check if your:

* [Android app](#check-android) is installed
* [Windows (UWP) app](#check-windows) is installed
* Progressive Web App is installed, if it's running in the
  [same scope](#check-pwa-in-scope) or in a
  [different scope](#check-pwa-out-of-scope)

<!--  Android App -->

## Check if your Android app is installed {: #check-android }

Your website can check if your Android app is installed.

* Android: Chrome 80 or later

### Tell your Android app about your website

First, you'll need to update your Android app to define the relationship
between your website and Android application using the
[Digital Asset Links system][dig-asset-links]. This ensures that only your

> website can check if your Android app is installed.

Reviewer: It's very rare that I suggest adding italics or bold to an article I'm reviewing. The goal should always be to add emphasis through word choice and sentence structure. I'm wondering if *your website* should be italicized.

Author: Fair point, I italicized them at the beginning, and added an aside that calls it out more specifically.

Once completed, publish your updated Android app to the Play store.

### Tell your website about your Android app

Next, tell your website about your Android app by
[adding a web app manifest](/add-manifest/) to your page. The manifest must

> include `related_applications` property, an array that provides the details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include the `related_applications` property, an array that provides the details
```

Reviewer: "A `related_applications`" woks too.

about your app, including `platform` and `id`.

* `platform` must be `play`
* `id` is the GooglePlay application ID for your Android app

```json
{
  "related_applications": [{
    "platform": "play",
    "id": "com.android.chrome",
  }]
}
```

### Check if your app is installed

Finally, call [`navigator.getInstalledRelatedApps()`](#use) to check if your
Android app is installed.

Try the [demo](https://get-installed-apps.glitch.me/)

<!--  Windows App -->

## Check if your Windows (UWP) app is installed {: #check-windows }

Your website can check if your Windows app (built using UWP) is installed.

* Windows: Edge 85 or later

### Tell your Windows app about your website

> Windows apps use URI Handlers to verify the it's is related to your website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Windows apps use URI Handlers to verify that it's related to your website.
```

```json
{
  "related_applications": [{
    "platform": "windows",
    "id": "MyApp_9jmtgj1pbbz6e",
  }]
}
```

### Check if your app is installed

Finally, call [`navigator.getInstalledRelatedApps()`](#use) to check if your
Windows app is installed.

<!--  PWA - in scope -->

## Check if your Progressive Web App is already installed (in scope) {: #check-pwa-in-scope }

Your PWA can check to see if it is already installed. In this case, the page
making the request must be on the same domain, and within the [scope][scope]
of your PWA, as defined by the scope in the web app manifest.

* Android: Chrome 84 or later
* Windows: Edge 85 or later

### Tell your PWA about itself

Tell your PWA about itself by adding a `related_applications` entry in your
PWAs [web app manifest](/add-manifest/).

* `platform` must be `webapp`
* `url` is the full path to the web app manifest of your PWA

```json
{
  …
  "scope": "/",
  "start_url": "/",
  "related_applications": [{
    "platform": "webapp",
    "url": "https://example.com/manifest.json",
  }],
  …
}
```

### Check if your PWA is installed

Finally, call [`navigator.getInstalledRelatedApps()`](#use) from within the

> same [scope][scope] of your PWA to check if it is installed. If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[scope][scope] of your PWA to check if it is installed. If
```

`getInstalledRelatedApps()` is called outside the scope of your PWA, it will

> return false. See next section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
return false. See the next section for details.
```

Try the [demo](https://gira-same-domain.glitch.me/pwa/)

<!--  PWA - NOT in scope -->

## Check if your Progressive Web App is installed (out of scope)  {: #check-pwa-out-of-scope }

Your website can check if your PWA is installed, even if the page is outside
the [scope][scope] of your PWA. For example, a landing page served from

> `/landing/` can check if the PWA served from `/pwa/` is installed, or if you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/landing/` can check if the PWA served from `/pwa/` is installed, or if your
```

landing page is served from `www.example.com` and your PWA is served from
`app.example.com`.

* Android: Chrome 84 or later
* Windows: Edge 85 or later

### Tell your PWA about your website

First, you'll need to update your PWA to define the relationship between

> your PWA is served and your website using digital assets links. This ensures

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you're trying to say.

Reviewer: I think there's a word missing.

Author: Rewrote this bit.

that only your website can check if your PWA is installed.

Add an `assetlinks.json` file to the [`/.well-known/`][well-known] directory
of the domain where the PWA lives, for example `app.example.com`. In the `site`
property, provide the full path to the web app manifest that will perform
the check (not the web app manifest of your PWA).

```json
// Served from https://app.example.com/.well-known/assetlinks.json
[
  {
    "relation": ["delegate_permission/common.query_webapk"],
    "target": {
      "namespace": "web",
      "site": "https://www.example.com/manifest.json"
    }
  }
]
```

{% Aside %}
Double check the file name when you create your `assetlinks.json` file,
I've wasted many hours debugging, only to realize I'd added an extra 's' in
the file name.
{% endAside %}

### Tell your website about your PWA

Next, tell your website about your PWA app by
[adding a web app manifest](/add-manifest/) to your page. The manifest must

> include `related_applications` property, an array that provides the details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include the `related_applications` property, an array that provides the details
```

complete details on setting up URI handlers.

### Tell your website about your Windows app

Next, tell your website about your Windows app by
[adding a web app manifest](/add-manifest/) to your page. The manifest must
include `related_applications` property, an array that provides the details
about your app, including `platform` and `id`.

* `platform` must be `windows`
* `id` is your app's package family name

```json
{
  "related_applications": [{
    "platform": "windows",
    "id": "MyApp_9jmtgj1pbbz6e",
  }]
}
```

You can find the package family name in the Packages section in the app
manifest designer.

### Check if your app is installed

Finally, call [`navigator.getInstalledRelatedApps()`](#use) to check if your
Windows app is installed.

<!--  PWA - in scope -->

## Check if your Progressive Web App is already installed (in scope) {: #check-pwa-in-scope }

Your PWA can check to see if it is already installed. In this case, the page
making the request must be on the same domain, and within the [scope][scope]
of your PWA, as defined by the scope in the web app manifest.

* Android: Chrome 84 or later

> * Windows: Edge 85 or later

Reviewer 2: Checking for installed PWAs isn't supported on Windows yet. It's only on Android for now.

Author: Fixed - thanks!
